---
author: convertify
date: '2014-09-14 19:52:20'
layout: post
slug: take-90-minutes-to-double-your-conversion-rate
status: publish
title: Take 90 Minutes to Double Your Conversion Rate
wordpress_id: '1455'
categories:
- Analytics
---
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=npDEUhe28Ao

For our clients what we do is like, every two weeks we set up a meeting with them and then basically have a presentation like this where we go over all the results, you know what I mean so, so every two weeks we have a meeting, so then we have like, basically the results of everything we’ve done data that we’ve looked at. So here, here is an example of a survey we did on a site where forty one percent of people were saying that they wanted search, like they couldn’t find the search bar, and if you look at the analytics on any site, people who use the search bar convert a lot higher, like 5 times higher, so probably on your sites you should be putting search bars because on every single site that I’ve ever seen in my life when people search the conversion rate is way higher, like, at least minimum three hundred percent higher conversion rate, so yea. So that’s why right, so we look at that data and we find that piece of information and Hunter, this is a good way to simplify this very complicated process, its really simple all you does it you like, you put a lot of effort into like, getting these pieces of information from like analytics, or surveys or Ethnio or that kind of stuff and then, and you always ask open-ended questions if you can because, otherwise you’re not going to find anything new, and then you plot out, like you categorize all that, it’s a lot of work dude, it’s like a lot of work (laughing) but you got to categorize everyone and then you can see stuff like this which is like what people want and then, you’re like forty one percent of people want a search bar, then let’s put a search bar. So we did a test as you can see here, we just added the search bar at the top, and this is from like last week, so, we don’t have any data on it yet. And then the second thing we say as that, like here’s another kpi, and this is how you use analytics, the first way you use analytics is to figure out like what to fix, and the second way you use analytics is to figure out KPI’s, which stands for “Key Points of Interest”, and you just look for anything that’s like interesting, so like, here’s a comparison of this girls traffic from you know, between July eighth and august fifteenth, no July first to august twenty first, so about, almost two months, and then the two months before that, and this is the home page too, and her site use to only get, all her visitors she would get like maybe two hundred and fifty thousand to half a million visits to her blog every month, but then all of a sudden like, because we’re always keeping an eye on it we noticed like, in July that all of a sudden her traffic to her home page spiked. So you can see the blue line is traffic to her home page and on some days she getting almost 1000 visits, and the orange that same time period before that, so it’s like completely flat, and then all of a sudden all her traffic is going there, and before all her traffic was going to the blog so the strategy was to focus on improving the click through rate from the blog to the offer page, but here, once you see this it’s like, alright we should probably focus more on the home page because it’s done most of her traffic. So whenever you run a test where there’s the most traffic, you’re going to get the most results out of it because there are more people come to it, you know. Ten percent of 100 is nothing compared to ten percent of ten thousand, so that’s why you always go to look at that too. And that’s the main reason you would use Paditrack because it’s really easy to see, which I’ll show you in a little bit. So basically we saw that piece of information, and were like, alright we need to do something to the homepage to get those people to go to the offer page, so we added this. Before this, all that was really here, literally nothing here, this part was moved up and under here was literally just like a bunch of blog post, right, it’s nothing, so there’s no way someone is just going to come to this page and go to like the page that she sells her product. So we just added on the home page this simple little thing, and you know, on most sites doing this wouldn’t work, but on her site specifically it worked because “a” you know, she had nothing there so there was like a path that was lost and “b”, you know, her traffic just went up a bunch all of a sudden, so if you put those two together you’re probably going to get a pretty big lift. Most sites, a lot of sites are already getting most their traffic on the home page anyways, so they’re always focusing on the home page so something like this wouldn’t be that effective on another site, another it comes down to is, you know, it doesn’t matter about your site, your site doesn’t matter, I mean it does but what really matters are your visitors . So if you always have an eye on like what your visitors are doing, and what your visitors are thinking then the rest is easy because the hardest part about doing this is figuring out how to make it better, and the visitors have the answers. So here is another really good one, this is one she was super stoked about. So we noticed on her blog, and this is why analytics is important too, we noticed on her blog that if you shrink the screen her blog has content on the left and a sidebar on the right, and the main money-maker was a call to action on the right, but it was a responsive site, so if you went below eleven hundred and forty pixels in width, if you stretched the browser smaller than one thousand one hundred and forty pixels, that sidebar would disappear and that call to action would no longer be there. So what I did was look at conversions for people under eleven hundred forty pixels and then people above eleven hundred and forty pixels and that’s another I’ll teach you, another thing you’ll have to learn in analytics is how to segment the data like this so you can get this kind of information, and you can see how, there’s a good fifty percent or more that are not seeing the call-to-action, and the minority which is the forty percent is seeing that call-to-action and even though they are the minority, see here are the visits, two hundred and thirty two thousand visits here, one hundred and fifty thousand here, and even though this one has almost one hundred thousand less visits, they have almost three times as many sales. That’s some really good evidence that omitted call-to-action is the problem. Why would there all of a sudden be this cut off where the call-to-action disappears and the sales go significantly down, this conversion rate is way lower than this one, and it’s probably because of that, so the next thing we’re going to do for this client, is we’re going to change that, so that first of all the cut-off is lower, maybe like at eight hundred pixels it would go away because most peoples browsers are at least seven or eight hundred pixels wide. Another thing you have to keep in mind is that if your screen is a thousand pixels wide that doesn’t mean that your browser is going to be a thousand pixels wide because almost no one puts there browser the same width as their computer. They usually put it less so they can multi task. So that just goes to show just how much you can do with analytics, if you’re tracking things and if you’re looking for the right things and obviously it’s one of those things that you get better at over time. I would have never thought about this two years ago but over time you do. So that is why this is really important too, because if you look at this client you’ll notice that, hold on that’s not tracking correctly. This is what it looks like. You know, you don’t need to setup goals, you can go in here and do whatever, and that’s the cool thing about this. So whenever you start, whenever you have a site the first thing you want to do once you have a couple thousand visits to it, on your launch or whatever, you want to map out a funnel using this and then it’s really easy to see even if you haven’t had any traffic as long as you have Google analytics installed you can see where people are dropping off. So this is another one of our clients that basically have worksheets for math, for teachers to print out and every site has a lot of different funnels because people come in from different places so you have to look at all the top ways people come in and start to funnel from there. So here are all the topic pages, these are all the pages that have a list of worksheets that you can look at but some of them are locked. Some of them you can look at for free, but half of them are locked so what we’re trying to do is figure out how to get more people to pay, if they pay like twenty nine dollars a month, no wait, it’s twenty nine dollars per year they can get access to everything. So when you first look at it, you look at something like this and you can see like, ok if I can raise this by like five percent absolutely that’ll increase to twelve percent but it’s going to effect the entire funnel, so if you increase this from seven to twelve, which is a five percent absolute increase you’re probably going to get, almost sixty percent more sales, right, as opposed to increase this by five percent you’re only going to get another twenty five percent more sales. So you usually want to look at two things, how much traffic does it get and how much room for improvement is there and the best way to do it to think about it in common sense, if you’re on the topic page and you see a bunch of worksheets and you see a button that say “oh you want access to all of them?” then click this button, that’s probably going to take a lot more commitment to do than if you’ve already clicked that button and you’re in the sign up page, it’s not even asking for the money yet here, so you would expect this conversion rate to be higher. You’d probably expect the conversion rate to be low here because this is the point where they actually have to put in their credit card information. You see this a lot on ecommerce sites because it’s a big commitment for people to hit ‘add to cart’, because when they hit ‘add to cart’ they’re pretty much committing to buying the product. Usually on an e-commerce site the lowest place you’re going to see it, or on any website the lowest place you’re going to see it is the point where you go from looking at a product to making some type of decision to probably buy it. So that’s why this is going to be lowest and of course because here they’re going from information to buy, which is like “oh buy this product”. But you have to look at enough numbers to be able to think like, ok is this low or is this not, because on a check out, like average check out abandonment is like eighty percent, so most likely when people look at it their going to think they’ll need to fix their check out, but eighty percent of people are dropping off there but that’s average anyways, and if it was like fifty percent that would look really bad to a lot of people but that’s actually really good . If I was at fifty percent and lets say from the home page the next page after that was 10 percent or even like 30 percent you’d want to work on the homepage more because, number 1, you want to compare it to what you feel it should be, whatever the average is for that kinda step, and number 2, you also want to look at how many visitors there are because on this page right here, if he’s getting thirty three thousand visits every week we could probably run a split test with a couple of variations on this page and complete it within a week , but if you want to run a split test on one of these pages it’s probably going to take four or five times as long as running a test on these pages. So when there is a huge difference like that from here to here it usually makes more sense to just run split test on here and get that number up so that more traffic is going here, and once we do run a split test over here it’s more efficient because there’s more traffic there. So by optimizing this, you’re going to get more traffic to go to more steps, but by optimizing this you’re not really going to effect any of these steps here. So, if it’s looking like this you might want to start here but there’s not that much drop, then you want to start wherever. So that’s basically Paidtrack , and Paditrack the way it works is, and you guys don’t need to know this but I gotta show them this, so it uses, so ninety nine percent of the time if you wan to get a good funnel you have use something called regular expression. Regular expressions are pretty complicated but they’re not hard, it seems complicated because there’s a lot of different things to it, but it’s really not because there are only a few things you use and I’ll show you really quick. Because if you don’t know regular expressions most of these tools you’re not going to be able to use, you not going to be able to use optimizely that well, you’re not going to be able to use qualaroo that well you’re not going to be able to use pretty much anything that has to do with marketing, if you want to get the most out of it you have to know regular expressions, but you don’t even have to know code. So if you’re a marketer I would say take the time to learn regular expressions and probably just get a developer and don’t worry about learning code, but definitely learn regular expressions because it’s such a small part of the process to have someone else be doing that part of the process for you would be super inefficient. I would take down this site right here (http://www.regexr.com/). So there’s this site called Regexr.com and it’s pretty cool, I mean, I’ll show you how it works. So basically it lets you mess around with it an get a feel for how it works. So it’s pretty simple, it’s really simple to give you a little quick overview because every marketing tool has this feature in it unless you’re doing a little more, but to give you a quick sample lets look at a random link I have. So let’s say you’re running like a survey or an a/b test or you gotta use it for qualaroo you gotta use it for qualaroo, you gotta use it for google analytics, I can’t think of any marketing tool that doesn’t have this feature and without it you can’t really do anything. So, the way it works lets say you’re going to set up a split test or a survey or you want to setup a conversion and obviously you’re not going to run your survey on all pages you’re only going to want to run them on a few pages, and a split test, lets say you’re going to just run it on your homepage, somehow you’re going to have to tell it just to run on your homepage, or if you wanna try like an e-commerce site you have like product pages where you want to test running a green button on all the product pages the only way you can do that is with regular expressions unless you want to get into the code, this is like a really easy simple way language to learn and it will get you pretty far. So lets pretend we’re trying to run a split test and we have something like this, so here’s the homepage, right, and here’s let’s just say a random landing page and this will be some category that has bicycles and these will be the products. And then also, another things that screws people over, are links like this, like sometimes they have tracking parameters, like if you’re using google adwords it’s going to have something like this and you have to be able to match that even though it has that. There’s only two are three syntaxes that you need to know. The first one is the characters, so basically the way you do a character is you do these square brackets and put what characters you want to match. So let’s just say you wanna match CRE. So basically what that’s going to match is basically CRE, that’s it, it’s pretty simple. But usually you don’t even need, usually you can just type CRE and that will work. Let’s say you wanted to match all letters a through z, the way you would do a through z is by typing a-z, that’s a pretty good way to do that, but let’s add some others ones too. So it’s always going to match, all this means is any character, it’s not like it’s matching the string, whenever you put a bracket it’s just one character. So match any one character between a and z but it won’t match capitals, but the thing is it looks like it’s matching strings, but it’s not, it’s just matching a and b and so its just a whole bunch of matches. So let’s just say you only wanted to match just ABC, so all you would do is basically put ABC, that’s it, so all you’d basically do is just put ABC. So when you use like the tools right, it’s only going to match, if it matches anything inside the string it will match. So if you’re setting up like a VWO test or an Optimizely test, or like setting up something in google analytics, as long as it matches anything inside it’s going to match that. So if you put the word credit, it’s going to match all of these, but for this example we’re only trying to target these, we’re not trying to target these here, we’re only trying to target these. So, the way you do that, here’s one way you can do it, if you tell it this symbol right here, so just remember that. That symbol means the beginning of a line, right, so now when I put, so now because I put this thing here its telling it whatever comes after it has to come at the beginning of the line, and you have to use that because sometimes if you don’t use that it’ll match all these things that you don’t want it to match and all your split test will get all f(# up. So basically this indicates that, this is the end of a line, so this is a line, this is a line, this is a line so think of these all as just lines, and this character isn’t even a character, all this marks is the very beginning. So if I put z, no I don’t even have to put that, if I just put B it won’t match this because it’s not at the beginning because the A is at the beginning and in the way. But if I put A then it will match that, that is one you’ll use a lot. So I would say that is one you have to remember and the dollar sign, which is the end of the line. So if you put c and the dollar sign it will only match the end of the line. So you’re going to want to make sure you use those and basically the way I do it is, because here’s another thing too is that, sometimes links they look like this, and sometimes links they look like this and even though those are all three going to the same place, and that’s why this is going to come in handy and I’ll show you what I mean. So, basically the way you’re going to do it, because ninety nine percent of the time you’re going to be working with urls, right, so sometimes in google analytics it’s important to do this to because you can do this with data, like you know how I showed you the one where we were looking at resolution under eleven forty and above eleven forty I had to write the regular expression so that it would be able to read the resolution, and you have to write a regular expression to tell it okay these are under eleven forty, and these are above eleven forty. So most of the time you’re going to be matching the URL, so this is a good way, so sometimes people have sub-domains like cool.creditinfocenter.com and that goes to a completely different website, so you have to be aware of that too, so the safest way to do it with a site I think is like this. So every site is going to have http: , right, so something like that, but sometimes sites have https and now this not matching, so how do you make it so it also matches https because it’s going to go to the same page and sometimes sites redirect you, and sometimes you’ll lose a ton of data and waste a lot of data because of that. So what you do is bring in the optional character. So you can make something optional, and the way you do that, so now, I am going to put an S right, and now it’s not matching these anymore because I put an S in there, but now if you put a ? in there, it makes whatever’s behind it optional . So that’s another really important one that you’ll use a lot. So far with URLs this is a good start, one thing to keep in mind is that some of them don’t always have the same syntax, some of them are going to force you to use a backslash, and what a backslash does is basically for escaping, for example, here’s a good example, like lets say I wanted to match this, how do I match a question mark if a question mark is going suppose to make it optional, like if I put http nothing happens, why, because the question mark is a way to tell it whatever is before me make it optional. But how do you make it so it will actually look at a question mark as a questions mark? That is where you use a backslash, so this backslash is super important, backslash is basically called an escape character and whatever is in front of it will be taken literally. The reason it exist is only because there are characters we are using like the ? that are helping us, its just a way to make those operators literal. So you guys pretty much all of the stuff you’re going to need. The backslash is basically a way of saying whatever is in front of it is literal. So you’ll never use it with an S because S is already literal you know what I mean. So that’s really important. The good thing there are little testers like this so you can make sure. I usually go and get a couple of test urls, a couple that are right and a couple that are wrong, and keep testing to make sure it’s right. So now let’s start matching this creditinfocenter one. Sometimes, it’s fine to do that, but sometimes it just doesn’t work. Sometimes, this means something else so sometimes this won’t work but most of the time it will. So, how do you, another I guess you could say too is character classes, character classes are important because I can either say, creditinfocenter.com, but what if I wanted to match both of these two, creditinfocenter.com and google.com, how would I tell it that? Well, there are two ways to do it, one way would be to be grouping. So basically what grouping does is, and I’ll do it in a way that makes it more simple, so parenthesis are a way of grouping things, so that’s super important to, and if you’re really going to use it, you’re probably going to use it like this, so you’re going to do …so that’ll match creditinfocenter.com and then you put a pipe (|) so inside parenthesis if you put a pipe that means OR, so then you can put google.com. So now it’s going to match creditinfocenter or google. So with what we’ve got so far, also remember you can make things optional, you can make groups optional too. If you put a ‘?’ in front of the parenthesis, then whatever is inside those parenthesis will be optional, so if I go like this, then what it’s saying is look for creditinforcenter.com or google.com, but if it’s not there, then fine, that’s pretty much what it’s saying. Let’s go back to the URL because you’re pretty much always going to be using URLS. The point of matching URLs is because when you setup something like a qualaroo survey, you have to be able to tell it you just want it to run on product pages and all the URLs are different. The way that you tell it which pages to run on is by writing one of these and it’s going to read the URL, and if it matches that, whatever regular expression you write, then it’s going to show the survey, otherwise it won’t and that is how the split testing tool works too. Everything we use, uses that, split testing tools use that, google analytics uses that, everything uses this. So, basically let’s say we have creditinfocenter, you want to match creditinfocenter.com, but we’re still not done though right, because eventually we’ll put one of these and it will stop matching everything, because we only want to match everything below here. So what we need to do is make it so, the goal is to essentially match none of these but make it match all these. So the next thing you do, because it’s not already matching the S you just go one step at a time, so you just go ok I need the S there, but it needs to be optional, so now it’s matching this too, but it’s not matching this why, because there is a WWW. There, right. So how do you do that? Well what you do is just make a group. So you make a group and put WWW. And then you make that optional and now it’s going to match that too, but it will only match this if it’s completely there, but if I take out the dot, it won’t match it anymore because the dot is not there. Another thing you have to remember too, is there are character classes, this is kinda tough, so if I do this, and that, a dot by itself, see in this a dot doesn’t really mean a period, a dot mean anything, a dot means a letter a number a space anything will match a dot. So you also have to remember what this means, so if I do dot plus means one or more, or dot all () means zero or more and that’s why it’s matching like all that weird stuff right, so it’s like zero or more of anything and dot plus is like one or more of anything. So if I put A, lets put, here’s a good one a good way to prove it, if I put dot D plus (d+) one or more of d’s, basically. So that’s what plus means. So there’s star which is zero or more and you’ll see how that makes more sense later. If you want your service to show on the whole site you’ll put dot star (.), so if you put like dot star creditinfocenter.com and dot star (.) it will match the whole entire site, and you’ll use that a lot too because you may just want to run a test on the whole site, like if it’s just something in the header, that’s probably one you guys will end up using a lot. Now this is when it gets more challenging. (question/answer). So the goal is to match all of these but none of these, so now you have to find out what is the difference between these two. Well, they both have category in it so that’s not going to work, but this one says bicycle afterwards and this one says bike, but just to make it a little harder we going to put this, but what you can do, there are a few things you can do, you can just put category, which will match those but it won’t match those, but what you can do is you can always just put the pipe (|) and just put adsfdf| and fsgs, sometimes you’ll get in a situation where, actually let’s just teach this on another day, this gets to complicated and I want you to focus on what we’ve learned here today. For now what we’ll do is put bikes, slash (/) so far so good, so we know that has bike, and honestly at this point once you got it like this you can just put dot (.) and star () and you’re done because dot (.) means everything. Doesn’t matter what it is dot is just going to match everything, but if you put let’s say, if you put, let’s just say I don’t know, if you just put something like this two right, then that’s going to mean, if you put the curly braces after the dot (.) then that’s just gonna say any character two times exactly, or you can say any character three times or four times or five times and see now since this one doesn’t have so many more characters it’s going to stop. That is why usually you’re going to figure it out until nothing is left and just finish it off like that. The goal is to make sure that only those are getting highlighted, even if it’s just in the middle, as long as only those are getting highlighted, but there are some that make you highlight the whole thing, but I don’t think I’ve seen any like that. And then the last thing I wanna show you because this is just really common, on a lot of sites what comes after the question mark (?) can actually change the content, so you have to be careful for that, so what you do, so what my favorite thing to do is, is just to do, lets just say, ill just teach you one more trick too, sometimes let’s just say these are all like different right , and there are just so many options that, because usually there’s a character limit as to how many letters can be in a regular expression, like with THIS client they were all different, so sometimes the way that sites are structured is by directory level, so like ok, if its slash something than it’s a category, but if it’s slash something slash something, then it’s a product, so basically the pattern that defines what’s a category and what’s a product is how many director levels deep it is, and the way you do that is you do an exclusion, and that’s what ill just do right here. So what’s like the easiest way to get back to categories, let me just change this around right here back to categories because it’s f(#_ing ugly, so what if you just wanted to tell it to, ok, just look at the pattern, there’s letters and then there’s a slash, so basically you can just tell it, I don’t care what’s in front of it just go to the next slash and that is how you target directory levels. So what you do with that is you do these square brackets which is just a character class, so you do just a-z and that is going to match basically one of any letter, see how it only matched one, or if I do plus it will be one or more, so what a square bracket does is it characterizes a character, so if I put this 0-9, it’s basically saying one letter 0-9, but there’s no letters 0-9, so it’s not going to work, but if I put a star () and then I put another letter it’s still going to match because this means zero or more, but if I put a plus there it won’t work because it requires at least 1 which is why it’s not matching further, so that’s a good way to think about that part. So what you do is you’re going to make a character class, and what you ‘re going to do is say match anything that’s not a backslash, one or more. So what you’d do is first inside the bracket you’d put the same thing that you put to define the beginning of the string and that’s basically included so what you’re saying is anything after this is what I don’t want and then you put a slash, and then plus. So now it’s saying anything that’s not a slash, one or more up to the next slash, and now I’ll just do that, and why did that happen, because now it’s matching the same thing here, so you know what you can do, you can just say anything that’s not, let’s just say, categories, just do another slash and then bike, then right here since it’s either one or two you can just do the hyphen and the pipe and put a one on one side and a two on the other side or you can just put it like that. And then just in case, for professionalism, oh actually that’s not going to work. Ok, so we put the end line, we told it specifically the line has ended here, but now these aren’t matching because it has this stuff, so some how you need to make this optional, so what you do is you make a parenthesis, so you make a group and put a literal question mark because that’s what’s there, and then dot all (.) BOOM! But you also need to make the group optional by putting another question mark (?) and now boom you have your regular expression, I mean, look at how Fu(#ng long it is, but that’s like, you know, that’s what you gotta do! It’s honestly not as hard as it looks once you get some of them down, and these schools they have like a lot of like references, like here’s a little cheat sheet that tells you everything, so that’ll help a lot, once you have everything it’s just trial and error. You guys gotta start doing that now and that’ll keep you guys busy. So Jack, you there, Hunter are you there? Is that too much for you or what? (Qustions being asked/answers being given). A good example is, imagine if you want to make a conversion and you have several different products and you had a different thank you page for each one, like maybe you were using infusionsoft or something, or maybe you have one thank you page for all of them but, you know like after the question mark (?) there’s usually a lot of information, a lot of shopping carts will put the ordering information in the url and you can write regular expressions so you can have one goal for just your e-book, another goal for just the video product, you can do a whole bunch of stuff like this. Check this out, look in Paditrack, look at when I open up Paditracks, just to match the topics dude, look how long this regular expression is, and that’s just to match the topics, and if it wasn’t for the ability we would have never been able to see that funnel, there’s actually no other way to see the funnel, unless you want to go into every single page, and tag them, or you write an expression with a bunch of types with every single page, but almost everything has a character limit, there’s like a 250 letter character limit, you have to stay under the character limit and still somehow be able to get it and there’s no other way to get that information. So for that kind of stuff it’s gold, this is why we have this information and you guys don’t. It’s hard to see the value of this when you’re just looking at it like that, but once you see the power point and how all this stuff ties together, and when you have all these things to look at, you know it’s all just about information. You know, business is just really all about making decisions, and the better decisions you make, the more your business is going to grow, and most of us are just guessing, we just take our best guess, but if you have a lot of data you can make better decisions, so it’s really important to have this stuff. So here’s another cool thing about Paditrack, too right, so you can check out this segment, so here’s this segment, and if you have custom segments, you can segemtn this in Paditrack, I do all my funnels in Paditrack, I don’t see any reason you would do it anywhere else because you can look back on historical data, you can measure different time periods, you can measure so much stuff, so check it out. Let’s look at this exact funnel, so here’s something, here’s the funnel for new visitors right, and here’s the funnel for returning visitors, look at the conversion rate on returning visitors almost one percent, look at the conversion rate on new visitors it’s point four (.04), then you can see where they’re dropping out right, six point seven, ok, it looks like the home page for some reason, for new visitors is not enticing enough right, so now we can take that information, for example, detect they’re a new visitor and put up a banner that says “first time here? Here’s 15 free worksheets just give us your email.” Boom! That’s information you would never be able to get otherwise, if it wasn’t for the fact that we were able to do those expressions we would have never been able to know that, the client would have never been able to know that, and that’s just one segment you know, and look at all these segments we have available to us, and you can see where exactly in the funnel they drop out, so you’re not like “oh maybe the drop out is from the checkout” you know it’s perfectly clear. We have a ton of other stuff. Here’s another thing too, look at all these other custom segments we have built right, so we have built segments for even the different test that we’re running, so here’s a split test for this guy we’re running. Let’s check out the same segment for the other variation. You guys need to start looking at this too, every time they run a test I put a segment for the test in there, and you guys could do this by yourselves it’s so easy so I’ll show you right now. Think about it this way, if your conversion rate is two percent, and you have one hundred visitors to your site, how many sales are you going to make today? Two, right. And if you have one thousand, you’re going to make twenty, of course your conversion rate changes over time, but you can just assume if your traffic doubles then your conversion rate will double. Unless, you’re incentivizing or you’re doing a sale or something like that, but the thing is that we do split test, so the split test will out all that. I know what you mean, I get what you’re say, you’re saying so if we get twice as many people to step two does that mean twice as many people are going to go to step three and step four and the answer is yea, majority of the time if you get ten percent more people to go to step two, ten percent more people will end up converting. This is something you guys definitely need to start doing on your stuff, just learn how to write those, because the only way this tool is useful is if you learn how to write those. Some other really cool stuff I use to do, I guess, what do they have, they got landing page report, you get that in analytics anyways, e-commerce reports you get that in analytics, micro-conversions you get that in analytics, this is the only thing you don’t get in analytics, I’ve probably used these other three maybe one time in my life. They’re useless, this is the only reason you’re going to use this and this is pretty much free, so. Step one, when you start optimizing a site is to get some data into google analytics, get that data into Paditrack, look at your funnels, (pausing to let someone in the screen share), you can look at different time funnels, you can look at different segments, also integrating all your split testing tools, so you can look at variation eight and how that effected the funnel but the main thing I would say is new visitors vs. returning visitors, your new visitors converted twice as high, or returning visitors I mean that’s always, on every site it’s like that, like search bars, like every site I’ve seen is like that, the landing page, what pages they land on every site one landing page kills it, and the thing is if you have like ten different landing pages you can look at which one is converting higher and just choice that one, or you can look at traffic sources like your youtube channel, or your facebook conversion, and what you’re look for is an anomaly, so like woah this one traffic source is converting like five times higher than this other traffic source, let me go look at that and let me go talk to those people and find out why. It’s not good enough to just see it, because that’s not going to tell you what to do, you have to, everytime you find something out like that you have to go ask them, you have to call those people or do a survey or something like, so that huge. So that’s step one, so the whole entire thing all this is, is to literally figure out where to start, that’s it. And it’s also for finding ideas, but as far as Paditrack, that’s how you’re going to use it. So now, onto the actual google analytics stuff. Another you wan to do is you want to make one of these things. So this is like the core metrics document, so every month what we do is look at the users, and here’s what you have to remember, this is the really important thing about google analytics, there are three types of ways of tracking, most people when they look at their conversion rate they look at their pageview rank, but one person is looking at about 6 pages per session, so if that one guy came to your site, so you got six pages views and you got a conversion you’re going to have a conversion rate of sixteen percent, but it’s just one guy that came to your site, your conversion rate should actually be one hundred percent, so that’s why you shouldn’t base your conversion rate on a lot of those tools, I think you mean google does that, they base the conversion rate on session, which is wrong because most people come back to the site multiple times, like you know this site more than one third of their site is returning visits. You look at the pageviews eight hundred thousand, but how many sessions, one hundred and twenty five thousand, that means on average every person is looking at six or seven page views so you’re already diluting your conversion rate, your conversion rate is already going to be inaccurate if you do that, even if you do sessions, right, so there are ninty seven thousand users and one hundred and twenty five thousand sessions so twenty percent of people, thirty percent of people came back more than once. If someone comes to your site twice, and then buys something, your conversion rate shouldn’t be fifty percent it should be one hundred percent, so that’s why you always want to look at users, and that’s why we have this document, because we can get more accurate data, so for every client we can keep track of this document right here that basically looks at a few things, we look at how many actual users came to the site that month, how many transactions, and we don’t take this from analytics, don’t ever take this from analytics because it’s always inaccurate, you want to look at either your e-commerce, your check-out system, or you want to look at your transaction processor ideally, and then the revenue from there. So you look at that every month, and you do, some sites vary a lot, this sites not that bad, but obviously since you guys are doing launches all the time, it’s always going to vary so you want to look at a six month average or something, we do three months, but for you guys probably even longer because you guys do launches and you probably make all your money in one week. So what you do is you look at that, you look at the first month you started, and for every month you do the same thing but you have a one month average, and then you have a three month average – this is what you’re going to compare. So basically, this is an actual client of ours, when we started, he was making about thirty eight cents per visitor, and you gotta also know the difference between revenue-per-visitor and conversion rate, so this is way more important, conversion rate is how many people convert into customers, but you know if half of them are buying ten dollar products and the other half are buying 100 dollar products, then you’re going to be getting a really crappy number because, what you really care about is revenue per visitor, because if you’re increasing how much they can spend, you’re still going to be increasing your revenue even if you don’t increase your conversion rate, so this is the most important one. But if you’re getting leads, you can’t measure that, so you have to measure your conversion rate, so we measure both of them. So for this particular client, after the first month we were able to get the conversion rate up by seven and a half percent (7.42%), second month another three and a half percent, so eleven point three percent total lift (11.29%) from when we started it, and the third month we got like a thirty pecent lift (27.69%) and it’s actually less because they had some screwed up data but probably like thirty percent (30%) so, we probably raised it like fifteen percent (15%) here, so just in the first three months we’ve been able to raise their conversion rate by like thirty percent (30%), and they’re doing about twenty thousand dollars per month, so we’re making them probably and extra six thousand dollars per month now which will amount to seventy two thousand dollars a year. So compared to what they paid us, they’re paying us a couple thousand dollars per month, that’s a really, really good return on investment, and it’s really important to have that because now matter how much testing you have and no matter how many good results you have in your test, it’s never going to feel like it’s worth it unless you’re actually seeing legit accurate numbers. The users count from google analytics is very accurate, get the information from your backend and keep track of this stuff, and you have to do this, think about it, you guys have no idea because you’re not tracking it that well, how much did this action really effect it, like “oh we moved to a new checkout” you know, how much is that actually effecting , or we got this new website design how much does that actually help. This guy we started working with, financial center, they spent a ridiculous amount of money on a redesign and their conversion rate actually went down, but, once we should them this, they see what actually happens and they start to believe more that we actually know what we’re doing. So that would be my second piece of advice for you, especially you Jack, it’s an easy way to see without having to get into all this kissmetrics stuff and all these tracking implementations it’s an easy way to see if it’s actually improving. Question from Jack: “Do you split test the number of sign ups when asking for a credit card, and when not asking?” The big things like that are the best things to test because they make the biggest difference, and the bigger of a difference something makes, at test makes, the less time it will take to test it. In the beginning you’re not really going to have that much data, so you’re going to want to test the things that make big differences, and that’s going be such a huge difference that even if you’re not getting that much traffic within the first week it’s going to be obvious, even if you only have one hundred sales, but you made twenty sales on one site and eighty on the other that’s pretty obvious which one you should go with, so I would say in the beginning is test those big things, and make a staging server, like a v2.whatever domain you have .com, and you should always have a live production server and then another server where you’re trying completely different things and do a split URL test between those two, and as long as you have the same thank you page you’re set, it’s really easy to test. If you don’t have a staging server then it’s a b#( h to test. (Jack talking). What we’re doing with one of our clients is we’re just doing a dollar trial, so they feel like “oh, well I hav to pay this dollar but at least it’s just a dollar”. Question by Jack: “And that one is converting the best for you?”. Yea, I mean it’s doing real well, like four percent (4%) conversion rate on an actual product, so it’s really good, and I think the drop out is like, nothing. So what else can I help you guys out with. Segmenting. Segmenting is the most important thing, because what you do, you think about, one thing that would be a differentiator, like new visitors and returning visitors those are two different kinds of people right, and it has to be in such a way where, you can’t say, oh iam gonna look at fifty years olds versus sixty year olds because there’s not enough difference there to conclude this is why they convert lower and this is why they convert better, it has to be something very different. So new versus returning is always great, and mobile, always look at mobile, look at that. So there’s a few way to look at that easily, but the way I do it is segment, so what you do is you can segment the majority of the time you make your own segment, its’ not hard, so you create a new segment and let’s just say mobile users, so there’s a few things you can choose from but I usually go straight to here, then go straight to conditions because it has everything and you just start typing whatever you want. So I am going to look at mobile device info, and usually when you click on it you’ll get options. So there are some preset ones for you here for you to look at, but the best thing to do, the best way to use it is to run a split test and when you’re running split test, what split test tool are you guys running, Hunter: “I believe optimizely”. do you guys know how to integrate that with google analytics? Hunter: “We don’t”. It’s pretty simple, it’s like one option in the settings whenever you setup the test, so Todd, I’m pretty sure yo know how to do that and make sure you integrate it on every test, and I always forget to do it, just don’t forget to do it, and once you do it will become available in the custom variables and you can literally just go into conditions and choose that custom variable and make a segment for each of your variations that you ran and that’s the best way to do it because you can specifically want to find out if football, see that’s the wack thing about analytics, because for you guys right, if you have a product and it’s for football players or basketball players and you want to know if football players are going to convert better or basketball players so what landing page is better for football players, what landing page is better for baseketball players, so then you want to split test and it comes in here and you setup a segment for each and look around all the information and you’ll easily see for definitely for football players do this for baseball players do that. So that really makes things a lot easier. So for this we’ll just do mobile users, and then save, and then add another one for, so you guys should be doing this all the time. You play with the traffic until you find something interesting, and look at a lot of stuff. How many mobile users twenty three thousand, how many desktop seventy seven, so about a quarter of the people on the site are on mobile, which is a pretty significant about, twenty three thousand people, so for this you have to prioritize what you’re going to focus on, then you look at the bounce rate, obviously mobile is going to be higher than desktop, but maybe that’s jstu an indication that the site needs to be better optimized for mobile. The next thing you want to do, you want to go to conversions, this is why you want to add conversions in here, if not than anything you do here you can always do in Paditracks. You can look at how much revenue, so what’s the conversion rate on mobile users .23%, not to far off , and what that kinda tells me, the conversion rate is about twice as high on desktop users, and remember, whenever you’re looking through google analytics, the ultimate goal is to find actionable data, that’s it, so, like, some kind of information that can determine something for a test. So like, mobile users are converting a lot lower than desktop users I wonder why, let’s call some of them, or let’s do some user test to see what they think about it, and they’ll say something like “aww, well this is really hard to do on this phone” or “the button is really hard to get to” then you fix those things and BOOM your conversion goes up. Sometimes, if it’s a lot lower then what you can do is on mobile you can do something like “save for later” and then what you can do is type in their email address and it will email it to the desktop or something like that. That’s important, that’s honestly all there is to google analytics, it’s just segment data on something that’s different and useful and look at if they have e-commerce data you’re going to look at e-commerce data, if they have goals, you’re gonna look at goals. So some conversions are actually higher on mobile users, that’s interesting. Let’s see what they got. So here’s the sign up page. Although mobile users are not making as much money as desktop users, they’re a lot more likely to go to the sign up page, so maybe the signup page is not optimized for mobile users, right. So I am actually going to write that down. So that’s the number one thing for analytics, and also, another thing to is you can make these short cuts and straight add it, you can call it like ‘mobile vs. desktop’, and that way you can get to it faster. Another thing you want to look at is acquisition. Acquisition is what goes over traffic. So really quickly, Dashboard, just ignore it, it doesn’t mean anything. Google shortcuts are just for the shortcuts that you’ve made. Intelligence Events are useless. Real-Time is useless. The only useful part of google analytics are right here. Audience will tell you things about people, right so, new vs returning, this is a good one to look at. So, what is the conversion rate on new visitors. So here we have new visitors in general, so they convert, the conversion rate on desktop for new visits is 0.39%, desktop for return visits 0.66% just like I said, always at least double. So one thing you can do is figure out a way to get more people to come back, right. Another thing you want to look at too, is what’s the difference. If there’s a huge difference between new visitors and return visitors, then that’s when you’re like maybe we should do something to get them to come back, but this is not that much of a difference, like 34% versus 65%, it’s not likely we’re gonna get like that much out of doing that kind of stuff, maybe down the line. Looking at mobile, again, return visitors convert about twice as high as new visitors, and in fact, return visitors for mobile convert higher than new visitors from non-mobile, so why is that, I don’t know who knows, why don’t we ask them. So this is another good place to look at. When I look in here, you basically only look at new versus returning , frequency’s really important, so how often do people come back before they buy. If you’re sites the kinda site where people tend to buy on the first visit, then you’re gonna want a big landing pages that have all the information there, it’s like one of those impulse buy things, but if you notice that people don’t tend to buy like here, people don’t but like until the second or third visit, then what you do is, you try to focus more on a longer funnel, so instead of trying to sell them right away, try to capture their email address, try to do like calulators, quizzes just stuff that’s interactive for them, you know. And honestly that’s it, that’s really the only thing you need to look at. Another thing I am gonna look at is, obviously now that I know, I learned this from another client, is the screen size. So, here you can look at a lot more than just what browser they’re using and you can look at what screen resolution they’re using. It’s good to look at screen resolution because if you see that there’s a big difference when you get lower, obviously you see how all these big screens convert well, maybe it’s because they have a lot of money, but look as you get to the smaller and smaller resolutions. Qustion: “How does google analytics get the browser size information?” Because you can measure it using javascript. You can measure it using javascript. Obviously the frequency is important, if I was you Jack I’d look at the frequency too dude. That’s super important. The main ones under audience if you want to write it down, is new vs. returning, mobile or non-mobile, what type of browser they are on because they might be having some errors depending on the browser they’re on and I would say the last one is the screen resolution. So those four, I would always look at those four and play with those. Acquisition, this is really the only one you needed to look at, and then keywords if you’re doing adwords. So google, organic traffic 0.3% and bing is converting twice as high. Well, it can mean one of two things, I don’t think people from bing convert twice as high just because they’re coming from bing, most likely what’s happening is the type of keywords that they getting matched for on bing are more relevant than the type of keywords on google, and if you want to get really crazy about it , then you can probably just look at the actual keywords, and kinda like dissect, you know do like an export to an excel sheet, look at the individual conversion rate for each keyword find the ones that are converting higher on bing that you’re not bidding on in adwords and then bid on them in adwords, so that’s what I would do. Then another one also is, and if you don’t have this hooked up you have to hook it up because this is super important, so what this is, see this, check this out, people tell me this all the time too, if you look at this, look at where most this traffic is right it’s in this ‘not provided’ 73% of people you can’t even see the keywords that they came from, so if you hook it up to webmaster tools you can actually get more accurate information, and it will not only tell you what position you rank under, it will tell you how many people saw you and how many clicks you got, and if you feel like your clicks are low, like your click through rate, like a number eight spot that’s pretty good right, because on average the top spot gets like 50% then it’s like 20% then it’s like nothing, but right here, he has a 3.1% and a 2.1 here and he’s getting 0.2% click, that probably means that if whatever page this was mostly linking to, if he changed the H1 tag so the result on google would be more different and relevant and people would want to click on it more, that’s like another ten thousand visits he could potentially capture, so that’s another thing too you should look at, but you don’t really do SEO so it’s not relevant to you, and we really don’t do SEO so it’s not relevant to us. And then, if you’re doing adwords this is super important, because not only can you see, I don’t know if he has any campaigns, but not only can you see what campaigns are making you money, but you can see what ads are making you the most money, and then you can see what keywords are making you the most money, and you can see what adgroups aremaking you the most money, so that’s super super important. A lot of the information you get in adwords all you get is conversion information for each keyword, but you get way more information out of this. So under google acquisition, in summary I would say, All Traffic is important, All Referrals is important, keywords is important and adwords is important, if you’re running it make sure you got SEO. I monitor my SEO on this, I don’t look at anything else really. And then, to the last one, behavior, the only one you’re probably going to look at is this one ‘Landing Pages’. A landing page, as google analytics defines it, is the first page that you landed on, so for nineteen thousand people in the last month the very first page they got to on the site is the home page, for ten thousand people the very first page is great, that’s super important, and that’s super useful especially if you have a lot of pages because you can look at the difference in the conversion rates right, here’s 0.88% and 0.65% BOOM, instantly you know this is a better converting page, why is this a better converting page, then you go look at your keywords and you can usually get some insight and find out. So that’s super important as well. Also, it tells you if you have other pages that are getting a bunch of traffic but no conversions, you can even redirect those pages to the ones that are getting hire conversions too. So that’s another way to increase your sales. Another thing is page timing, which is so important, so so important. I wish they told you the actual conversion rate for this, but they don’t, but amazon did a study and they got a lot of data, so it’s no so bs study and they found that for every hundred millisecond they reduce their site speed they got 2% more sales, so if you can get your site to go one second faster you’re going to get anywhere from 8-20% more sales if you get one second reduced load time. That’s why recently I’ve been uninstalling all my wordpress plugins and I am actually moving to a new platform called ghost that runs on node because its way faster, that’s why its good you only have static sites because static sites run really fast. You gotta not use so many images, because you guys use so many images, and some of those images that you guys use are like 4 megabytes, that’s like downloading an entire song just to look at your site. If anything, there’s a program called image compress, or something like that, and it doesn’t reduce and quality and you just upload and every image that’s upload it reduces the size by about eighty percent so I’ve been doing that for my clients. Check this out, visits without site search, see that right there, 0.38%, visits with site search, 2.76%, that’s almost nine times as high just by searching. So, one of the things I’ve actually been thinking about building is a little plugin that you add on your site and it makes your search do one of those drop down things that autofills and shows you what product you’re looking for. Every single site I’ve ever looked at was like this, definitely make search a big deal. That’s why we’re doing that one with our client, we’re running a search test right now. Last thing I would say, is events. Events are super crucial, you have to set them up manually, just look it up, its really simple. It’s that same line, like that same line of code I sent you and you said “can’t I just put in that forth line” that line, if you just replace category, action label. Remember how the first one said checkout, submit and something else, category, action, label that’s all those are and they’re really easy to setup. Like every little thing, like all the little forms on the checkout, there should be an event on every little form field to see which form field people actually use, which ones people actually don’t. Even prefilling the state, that they’re in based on the ip address of the country they’re in, all that stuff makes it so much better, its makes the conversion so much better. So definitely make sure you’re tagging all that stuff and if I was you dude, I would use segment.io because with them you only have to do it one time on your site and then all you gotta do is flip on the switch on their backend and you can have it feeding into kissmetrics, crazyegg, qualaroo, all that stuff. That’s it, that covers everything. ﻿
